Pleasure to be as well. Good to see you great panel beforehand. Love to see all the work that you're doing in the space. So why don't you tell everybody? What you do?

Unknown Speaker  0:20  
Yeah, I'm the CEO of blades, five game and co founder. And we are licensed digital gaming and career pathway company, as long as well as CEO and co founder of appearing Global Institute is a micro credentialing company in 120 countries and offers career pathways where we call micro learning to individuals who are trying to upskill themselves.

Unknown Speaker  0:43  
Excellent. And we all need that. Right. So this interview is specifically about how is blockchain increasing financial literacy? Yeah, absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  0:53  
You know, I think what we're seeing now, what's happening in the world right now is key skill and understanding the budgeting and managing blockchain allows ability where everyone can have an open space, and starting even at an earlier age to be able to do this. We don't have to wait and say, Do I take this course in a class? When we look at the worlds of how we're reaching our different markets, tic tock and all those different aspects, Blockchain speeds up that process more quickly makes it more efficient and effective.

Unknown Speaker  1:24  
Excellent. I totally agree with that. The other question I have, what about when education is gamified?

Unknown Speaker  1:32  
When educators gamified is one is more socially engaging, right? I mean, what we found that students who are involved with gaming, or more than likely 70%, more likely one to score higher in STEM classes in math and science, because they're socially engaged, is their space is where they feel comfortable, right. And that's probably the biggest advantage studies have shown that, more importantly, those who it brings out those who may be introverts right now, in that space in gaming, and having to gamify it allows them to be carrying out their side as an extrovert without even realizing.

Unknown Speaker  2:08  
Wow, that's amazing. So how do you think that combination of both is going to take financial financial literacy forward?

Unknown Speaker  2:17  
Here's the biggest events we see with other companies. And we also homeschool my kids financial literacy program. And what we've done, there's a game out there called NFL visa, financial football, which also has a soccer and also a baseball component where it's asked students, you know, at different levels, rookie pro, you know, level a Hall of Famer about what is a bond and then if you don't call the right play, you'll get sacked, but if you call iterated play your score many years. So the gamification pieces helping the kids understand the balance of this if I make a decision about understanding what is a debit card, and why was a credit rating, it will help them sustainable in their lives, long term sustainability.

Unknown Speaker  2:59  
And you and in your previous answer, you also mentioned that you the the retention rate in their mind is higher than 70% rate. Can you go into that a little?

Unknown Speaker  3:08  
Yeah, absolutely. What we found a research study have shown one, not only is the retention rate around because they can connect it to what they're doing in their everyday lives. For example, if they see now the gaming aspect, so if they're making a move inside of the game, they remember that move in the game. They're now correlating that with their how to I did this in a math step, a geometry step. Weird. You know, I was able to experience that with my son. But he was also taking Chinese. He was also playing a game on his online class, where he just somehow connected what he was learning in his Chinese math with his gaming moves on fortnight. Wow. It was the weirdest thing we'd ever seen. So I've seen it firsthand. Now it's valid, of course, what he's doing now. But I think what they what he did, and I asked him, I said, like, how are you getting this math? I don't Chinese. He said that it was simple. I was counting the steps of what it was doing here when I was playing fortnight. And I said, Well, if you did that, if you take that divided by that, then when I shot the guy over here, I broke it down same way, and Chinese man will take this step. And when I missed a step, I messed up on the game. I missed a step. I messed up on the math problem. So I don't know how you figured out what the answer is correct. So I think we were not given his credit of what they're actually learning. Right? Realizing that they came out of the womb, basically, already, we're technology in the hands. So our way of skilling now teachers, guys, you know, as we talked about this, right? You guys would like to Canada and all these areas, we have to think about there's a new way what I call reimagining the delivery of education.

Unknown Speaker  4:46  
I agree with you on that because you know what, immersion is how people really learn because it affects your memory differently. So there's a physical aspect to what you're doing, and not just you doing it on a piece of paper or you're taking it like with audio, the more senses that are involved, the more it's ingrained in your memory.

Unknown Speaker  5:04  
And you said the word visual. Yes, the visual learning aspect. I think that's what blockchain everything is doing now even more. So the visual learning aspect has now taken over even more so than we've ever probably ever seen ever in history.

Unknown Speaker  5:17  
I would say also, and the next step using the meta Metaverse could be multi sensory learning, this

Unknown Speaker  5:22  
is the engagement that we're back to what we talked about earlier, right, you're talking about, I can take an avatar and make it really cool about learning I can really make can be, you know, we talked about earlier, it can be this anonymous person, but more importantly, anonymous person, I can be whoever I want to be. But I'm actually engaged. And I think our teachers, educators will have to start seeing that our workforce coping in America and everyone, so slow, it's a slow turn, but it's here to stay.

Unknown Speaker  5:51  
I also heard that part of memory is spatial. So you mentioned something about your son. And memories are actually human the way humans evolved over time, we have external memory versus a sort of internal memory versus using external we've externalize what harddrive looks like you want to know something, no one remembers that. But you can go on Google and find out in seconds. But whenever you're engaging your senses, it goes into your long term memory.

Unknown Speaker  6:17  
And we're remembering something that we view as important, let's say get something as simple as this. We probably can't remember a phone number for our family members, because we have the same as effect. But somehow, Mike was able to remember that every step that I made in that game, he correlated that to his gene is math and Chinese. And somehow, it was a different type of memory. So I say, it's almost like, we want to remember what we want to remember.

Unknown Speaker  6:49  
That true. And to add to your point, I read a couple of books about memory, one of the things that they say is engaging both sides of your brain just correct. So if you engage like a sense, like walking and space, what goes into your deeper memory, or let's say like, what you're what he's saying about there's a response in the game, that's can be emotional. That also is another sense, right? So now you're like visual, you know, potentially even they say people who are in avatars, they think it's so real, they think they're doing that. Right?

Unknown Speaker  7:21  
I'm just personally, exactly. And technically they are right. But they were like, I'm this person, and they were able to go into another world that really allows them to let them beat them. I always call it because it's allowing them to rebrand me. And that's their world. And as long as we I always share with parents don't have to run away from me, seek to understand what's going on here. They'll go over 700 colleges and universities offer full game scholarships. Why would you turn your kid away from that the job is two times a four out there. So cut them off and have careers memory, you're correct. You're dead on with what happens engaging both sides. We've never had that when we say the the larger left brain. Right. We're the world now where blockchain and metal first of all, that now changes all of that. And that's a good thing.

Unknown Speaker  8:10  
Actually, I don't know if you know this. But back before when memory was more internal, they use storytelling to remember things. And they use the another thing that they use for memory was memory palaces, which is correlated to space.

Unknown Speaker  8:26  
Right, right. Yeah. So yeah, absolutely. So back then. So I was telling my kids, I said, Listen, don't try to memorize that math problem stuff. Work through it. But the difference is, is much as I'm saying, the hunting that they are all they're almost like fighting against it saying No, Dad, remember, when you taught us to play chess, you said thank these 13 moves ahead or does 18 moves ahead. You were basically telling us to memorize the steps. So I was like, right here like so why are you can't change it on understanding the steps on education?

Unknown Speaker  9:04  
Well, I think change takes time as well, it does, right. So it's not like you go from A to Zed like this, that it's also like, but what you said I think is important. Here's the How did the problem solving in one case helping the other right, so it's like transferable skills, how do you transfer you know, from this to this? So it's like, how come this you think you're just you think you're just studying let's say, how to install a blockchain wallets and going through the steps but that makes that teaches you more about risks? Right? So that's, that's something you can transfer

Unknown Speaker  9:37  
risk that you're willing to take knowing that it's not going to be the end of the world. See, he was like, Well, I made the wrong moves in the game. He moved. He was like, Oh, I got killed. But wait a minute. But then he correlated that was If I miss this step in math, I got a bad grade. So again, the correlations was unreal. I've never figured out Don't wander for Go I was like if you guys if you liked it I love it because he came up with the name
