Unknown Speaker  0:01  
So hi everyone. This is one blockchain Justina welcoming you in DC and I'm here with a very special guest who's been in the blockchain space was organized hackathons. And I'll let her introduce herself.

Unknown Speaker  0:13  
It's a pleasure. Thank you so much. My name is Dr. Denise Farrar Somani. And I am the CEO of FSG digital transformation company, as well as we have a nonprofit because we believe in giving back. And that is fifth way that STEAM education initiative.

Unknown Speaker  0:32  
Wow, Jenny. So thanks so much for being here with me today, you do so much work in the space. I'm very honored to be here with you. And the reason we're having this interview today in the first place, is to discuss blockchain and financial literacy. And you mentioned you have already worked on that. So I'd love to get your input.

Unknown Speaker  0:49  
Well, I find it to be really critical. Financial literacy, I believe is at the forefront, as well as the foundation of economics. So in order for people to be successful, and to move forward to build individually, as well as communities, cultures, as society, if you will, and whether it's government or whether it's more personal, you need to have an understanding of finance. And in order to do that, I just said, why not have a hackathon, why not open it up to the world, open it up to generations, if you will. So it wasn't any particular age. And we got together in a hackathon format, we had a pre talk to understand exactly what financial literacy was. But most importantly, I connected it to something that was critical on the Maslow's law, which is food, if you don't understand where your next meal is coming from, or why there isn't a grocery store in your neighborhood, this game, this gave us an opportunity to open up that thought process, about how to connect food with financial literacy and the value that it brings to the individual and to society. So we had a hackathon in 2021, excuse me, 2020 do. And it was it was fantastic, because it was open to the global community. And we focused on allowing for people to come into that space with no coding. So it didn't matter at what level they came in. And we'd had our orientation so they could understand we provided a platform in which they could actually come on and have mentors connect to build a community and an ecosystem. And then at the end of it was also translated in French, as well as we had English. And so that opened up and level set, in many instances, just the opportunity and the access, if you will, to that experience of innovation. And the team that won I have to tell you, the team that won was a middle school team. We had college students, we have professionals, it was incredible, but a middle school team one from South Africa, and they actually created a I what I would call is a full 360 Supply Chain solution for food insecurity in South Africa.

Unknown Speaker  3:22  
Wow. You know, that's actually what I want to do my master's in a fantastic supply chain insecurity.

Unknown Speaker  3:28  
Yeah, yes. Oh, fascinating. Absolutely. But

Unknown Speaker  3:32  
that aside for the moment, what I wanted to ask you next is I understand you wanted to Maslow, I understand you made it inclusive. I even feel like he broke down barriers by doing it and you know, level setting in a different languages. How do you feel the gaming aspect of money will affect the financial literacy as well?

Unknown Speaker  3:54  
Well, I think it's fun. I mean, it gets you involved. And it also spars on competition. It gets gives you a sense of, if I do more, what else can I bring to the table, and it gives you an opportunity to actually accelerate and to push oneself. So sometimes we can compete against others. But it also allows us to compete with ourselves. Can I learn more? Can I do more? Can I be more? And what exactly what value does that bring? So I think it would be quite intriguing with the ladder board or something of that nature.

Unknown Speaker  4:31  
Yeah. So we're actually building that out into our websites, having the leaderboard to your library via the gamification and then showing doing well and how, you know how people are playing. So that's for sure. The the data aspect, like you said, is interesting, because it gets the competition going. I want to know how how you get the people engaged when you do these hackathons to ensure that the learning is immersive.

Unknown Speaker  4:56  
Oh, good question. Really. And it's not difficult. It's a matter of out and I somewhat began to share how we went through the process of the hackathon. And I believe that that truly was the secret sauce. So I'm kind of sharing this a little bit with you is that we had an orientation whereby we were actually able to bring in individuals into a very secure space that they can learn and hear from people from around the world that look like them, or didn't look like them that sound like them, but may not have sound like them. So we had someone from Europe, that is a dear colleague, and on our advisory board that actually provides a mindset shifting exercise, and spoke about how we need to think differently. And if we think differently, how we can utilize our different thoughts. So that was a great opportunity. We also brought in someone that focused on a PhD student that focused on agriculture, because I truly felt that felt that part of the food security and the literacy and the understanding the value of food, and an economic sense, was because we need to think about food to table what does it mean, from a seed to the actual harvest and from the harvest to the actual farmer and from the farmer to market. So we brought in an actual PhD student that was studying some of that area. And then I put on I later did into the blockchain space, which gave it that whole supply chain concept. And then we brought in an expert from IBM, that also worked on the chain for many, many years, a dear colleague of mine. And so that was a great setting the stage, if you will, and got people interested, wow, I can really see how this could happen. And you don't have to have coding it or a low code, even. So it was a great experience. And then the next day, we actually had our full session, I taught a class on blockchain, which I've been teaching for five years. So it was a great opportunity for people to understand what exactly was blockchain and then providing case studies. So they could see themselves and see their businesses, or businesses that they utilize or frequent, they can understand those concepts. And to put into perspective Exactly. Well, how can I change this, to really begin to think about if I'm going to buy a car? Because a car, the automotive industry was one case study? If I'm going to buy a car? What is the value of that car? How does that literacy, that financial literacy about the value of the car, and how we utilize the chain, and our finances, what they were pulling everything together. So we observe a lot of cognitive development, it was a lot of thinking was a lot of personal desire and interest in exactly what they wanted to buy.

Unknown Speaker  8:03  
Excellent. It sounds very immersive. And I also like how you allow people from different levels of coding to participate. Have you ever thought about AI in your workshops?

Unknown Speaker  8:16  
Oh, absolutely. Because after digital transformation, AI is at the cornerstone, AI ml machine learning deeper learning. Absolutely. Ai allows for us to think on a different level allows to upscale, and in some contexts you you may have if you want to separate the machine learning aspect, the repetitive, the what ifs, that allows for us to think in a different context. So we could look at that virtual space, the AI space and take it out of the here and now and into a full contextual, maybe three web web three, context. And so who knows what could come from it, we haven't done it yet. I know you're on the purpose of doing it, I want to be a part of it. Because I think it's gonna be exciting. If we could really bring in that AI world where people could be them, their full selves in that space, then they can actually create without biases, they can create without hesitation. And that's what I'm looking for. I'm looking for the unpeeling, you know, to really happen and and I believe very truly, that in web three, we can really level set that.

Unknown Speaker  9:33  
Yeah, I like what you said earlier about creating the safe space in the first place. Right? Yes. So I think like going back to what you said and the needs one of the first needs is also shelter, right? Yes. So I think setting the stage for the idea to come in if someone is in that safe space, they can get creative. Absolutely. Right. So that was the creativity, the flow of ideas. So it seems like and it's interesting how what you said earlier To when you set up that someone coming in to do that mental shift, that when you can shift the room like that, that means all those people can completely, you know, you'll get a whole different level of ideas you may not have predicted before.

Unknown Speaker  10:14  
Absolutely. And quite often people are individuals, you AI are always thinking in within a certain parameter. That's how we're trained. That's how we're, you know, we learned, but to think outside of the box is to allow yourself to be or to take form, however you'd like to take that form. So if you could imagine in an AI space, actually having a persona or avatar that looks like you but may not look like you directly. And they could actually take on that that persona that brings them to another level another way of thinking to say, well, it's it's me, and I, you don't have as much hesitation about making those decisions, or innovation, developing a particular product idea concept, and really putting it out there because the judgment is gone. And

Unknown Speaker  11:09  
do you think that also going back to financial literacy being in that space, as people like change their concepts of financial literacy, maybe like, when they've gone in, they had one concept and they can walk out, and they can completely see things differently?

Unknown Speaker  11:24  
I think there's a value shift. There's a value shift, it allows, when you put your ideas and concepts into real thought, without judgment, quite often we can begin to say, well, you know, perhaps that idea would work. Right? And it doesn't make you apprehensive from trying. And that's the beauty is that you can try in these spaces you can try in these dynamics without judgment, and innovation actually does occur.
